---
layout: post
title:        'iPhone SDK TOS 3.3.1: One Month later'
author:       ''
published_at: 2010-05-07
---

<h1> {{ page.title }} </h1>

<p class='meta'>by {{ page.author }} &middot; {{ page.published_at }} </p>

<p>If you&#8217;ve been living in a cave, &#8220;3.3.1&#8243; refers to section 3.3.1 of the iPhone Developer Program License Agreement. Section 3.3.1 for the iPhone 4.0SDK beta reads:</p>
<blockquote><p>3.3.1 — Applications may only use Documented APIs in the manner prescribed by Apple and must not use or call any private APIs. Applications must be originally written in Objective-C, C, C++, or JavaScript as executed by the iPhone OS WebKit engine, and only code written in C, C++, and Objective-C may compile and directly link against the Documented APIs (e.g., Applications that link to Documented APIs through an intermediary translation or compatibility layer or tool are prohibited).</p></blockquote>
<p>It&#8217;s been about a month since 3.3.1 came out. The most obvious impact of this is on Adobe Flash CS5. Prior to 3.3.1, Adobe has announced that Flash CS5 will include a Flash-to-iPhone compiler. Now, Adobe has cancelled that feature.</p>
<p>Here&#8217;s a roundup of how the other iPhone development tool providers have reacted to 3.3.1. Except for funkaster, writer of shinycocos, most of them seem to be optimistic that they&#8217;re in the clear.</p>
<p>AnscaMobile (Corona SDK):<br />
<a href="http://blog.anscamobile.com/2010/04/corona-and-iphone-os-4-0/%20" onclick="pageTracker._trackPageview('/outgoing/blog.anscamobile.com/2010/04/corona-and-iphone-os-4-0/?referer=');">http://blog.anscamobile.com/2010/04/corona-and-iphone-os-4-0/ </a></p>
<p>Torque (iTorque):<br />
<a href="http://www.torquepowered.com/community/blogs/view/19715" onclick="pageTracker._trackPageview('/outgoing/www.torquepowered.com/community/blogs/view/19715?referer=');">http://www.torquepowered.com/community/blogs/view/19715</a></p>
<p>Unity:<br />
<a href="http://blogs.unity3d.com/2010/04/10/unity-and-the-iphone-os-4-0/" onclick="pageTracker._trackPageview('/outgoing/blogs.unity3d.com/2010/04/10/unity-and-the-iphone-os-4-0/?referer=');">http://blogs.unity3d.com/2010/04/10/unity-and-the-iphone-os-4-0/</a></p>
<p>funkaster (shinycocos):<br />
<a href="http://github.com/funkaster/shinycocos/commit/9ebda7fcfc853db266b4b49c01bdbc5fa5a9be42#comments" onclick="pageTracker._trackPageview('/outgoing/github.com/funkaster/shinycocos/commit/9ebda7fcfc853db266b4b49c01bdbc5fa5a9be42_comments?referer=');">http://github.com/funkaster/shinycocos/commit/9ebda7fcfc853db266b4b49c01bdbc5fa5a9be42#comments</a><br />
(see the comments below the git commit)</p>
<p>Rhomobile:<br />
<a href="http://rhomobile.com/2010/04/09/iphone-4-0-sdk-rules/" onclick="pageTracker._trackPageview('/outgoing/rhomobile.com/2010/04/09/iphone-4-0-sdk-rules/?referer=');">http://rhomobile.com/2010/04/09/iphone-4-0-sdk-rules/</a></p>
<p>Me? I&#8217;ll stick to learning plain XCode, Objective-C, plus the <a href="http://www.cocos2d-iphone.org/" onclick="pageTracker._trackPageview('/outgoing/www.cocos2d-iphone.org/?referer=');">Cocos2d</a> Library.</p>
