---
layout: post
title:         'Rails 3 upgrade part 4: Prototype helpers and Javascript'
author:        'Greg Moreno'
published_at:  2010-08-25
original_link: http://gregmoreno.ca/rails-3-upgrade-part-4-prototype-helpers-and-javascript/
---

<h1> {{ page.title }} </h1>

<p class='meta'>by {{ page.author }} &middot; {{ page.published_at }} &middot; <a href='{{ page.original_link }}'>Permalink</a></p>

Rails 3 is embracing the <a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Unobtrusive_JavaScript">unobtrusive Javascript (or UJS)</a> mantra which is good because it is the right way; at the same time, it is bad because many applications will break when they upgrade to Rails 3. On the other hand, who's expecting a smooth upgrade anyway :)

In my test application, I used jrails because I am more interested in jQuery than Prototype. But since <a href="http://www.railsplugins.org/plugins/264-jrails">jrails doesn't work with Rails 3</a>, I removed it.

When jrails was removed, I received this error:

<pre class="brush: ruby">
undefined method `observe_field' for #<#<Class:0xb6867e58>:0xb6865b6c>
</pre>  

<strong>Install Prototype helper plugin</strong>

'<a href="http://apidock.com/rails/ActionView/Helpers/PrototypeHelper/observe_field">observe_field' is a Prototype helper</a> and Rails 3 removed the the link between its Javascript helpers and Prototype. The goal in Rails 3 is for developers to use their preferred Javascript library. Also note that  remote_#{method} helpers have been removed from Rails and moved to <a href="http://github.com/rails/prototype_legacy_helper">Prototype Legacy Helper plugin</a> . To install this plugin, just do:

<pre class="brush: ruby">
rails plugin install git://github.com/rails/prototype_legacy_helper
</pre>

<strong>Remove jQuery</strong>

Once the prototype_legacy_helper is installed, the missing method is gone but observe_field is not triggering. Removing jQuery fixes this problem.

Now what if you want to use jQuery instead of Prototype? It depends how dependent your application is to Prototype. I have not found a jQuery equivalent for Prototype helper plugin yet so that would be an issue like in my case. Based on this <a href="http://blog.bernatfarrero.com/jquery-and-rails-3-mini-tutorial/">jQuery and Rails 3 tutorial</a>, using the jQuery UJS driver looks very easy. 

Previous: <a href="http://gregmoreno.ca/rails-3-upgrade-part-3-code-fixes-views-and-forms/">Rails 3 upgrade part 3: Code fixes, views, and forms</a>
